Hi guys.
So the last lab for Aurora is on global database.
Now you may remember from the overview section that we have global database.
The key benefit is that you get very low latency replication across regions.
So it's similar to my see call cross region read replicas and that your secondary regions can serve
read traffic only.
But the key benefit is that you're able to do so with much lower latency.
So if your applications are reading the data from your database in your other regions and they need
to make sure that they get the latest data they can't even handle a you know a few seconds of delay
then you're going to need to use global database.
The other key benefit is that it doesn't put much of a performance impacts on your master database so
it's not using the sequel features within the actual database instance itself.
Some of that processing is being offloaded and it's actually putting a minimal impact on your database.
So that's really good.
And what we're going to do now is actually create a configuration in AWS, so let's head over to the
console.
So we're here in the console and I'm just going to go to databases.
I still got my databases deleting from the previous lab and we're going to choose create database.
We're going to choose Aurora and we're going to come down and choose this option here where it says
Aurora global database feature is now available.
Now this is another one that's quite new so may not be on the exam but it's gonna be a quick lab anyway
so let's get into it and remember you will pay for the resources you create on Aurora,
there's no free tier. So we're going to leave mysql compatibility enabled.
We're going to leave Aurora mysql 5.6 and this is where we could choose regional and
if we choose regional we get the option to add Read replicas and to choose service or we can go to global
and we don't get those options for Aurora replicas or service.
So what we do get are these two options where we just choose a profile.
So we'll choose a dev/test template and that's going to reduce the resources that are created.
I'm just going to call this global DB and I'm going to copy that and paste it in as my try that again.
Copy that and paste it and paste it as the password paste it to confirm our lead encryption enabled.
I'm going to choose the smallest instance I can but the options are different too with standard Aurora
and you can't go to the smaller instances that I use there you can choose to enable multiple AZ.
And in this case it creates an aurora replica read node in a different AZ, so we know what this is,
this is for scaling read traffic.
I'm going to leave the default VPC enabled and I'm just going to choose
Create database so that I'll take a little while to create and we'll just pause the recording for a
few minutes while that takes place.
That took 15 minutes or so and now we have our global database and available state so you can see that
the role is global for the database configuration.
And then we've got our cluster here with the primary instance being in AP-southeast-2 and it's a writer.
So what we want to do now is create a global database in another region and the way we do that is we
highlight at the top here we go to actions and add region and it would tell us that we're adding a secondary
region to the global database.
Secondary regions can serve low latency reads In the unlikely event your database becomes degraded or
isolated in the primary region.
You can promote your secondary region so we can then just go in and select the region we want to go
with.
I'm just gonna choose U.S. East North Virginia and again we get some options here and I'm just gonna
put it down to the smallest instance type available and we also get an option to create a rural replica
in the availability zone in the upper region.
I'm just gonna leave these as defaults and just come down here and click Add region now in the console.
We have the role secondary here and we can see this secondary cluster.
So we have our global database defined here.
Then we have our primary in AP-southeast-2 and then we have our secondary in us-east-1 and then our primary
we have a writer and in our secondary we have a reader reader.
They'll take a few minutes to provision and once that's complete we'll have a look at how we can promote
our secondary to become its own primary instance and a writable database.
Our secondary global database is now available and if we go and try and can figure out what's going
to happen is it's going to just open the console in US North Virginia because obviously RDS is regional
and we can then actually go in and see the endpoint names and we can go in and have a look at our cluster.
So what we've done is we've now created our secondary region and we have this read only database here.
And as you know it's created a cluster so it's got multiple copies of our database data there and we've
got asynchronous replication going on.
But what happens if our primary region fails and we want to enable our secondary region or perhaps we're
using this as a way to migrate our database from one region to another.
And if so what we need to do is break the replication and then promote this read only database to become
a writable database.
So let's head back to the console and see how that's done, we head to our cluster and we choose actions
and remove from global and you see the option here is remove and promote.
So it does it all for you.
Removing them promoting global DB cluster 1 in USD-east-1 will stop the replication from global DB cluster
1 in ap-southeast-2 and convert it into a standalone cluster.
So let's press remote remove and promote and we'll get this done.
And we've now got little banner at the top here and it's telling us that it's removing and promoting
the secondary global DB class the one from the global database being a few minutes it still says it's
promoting but we can see that the database is being created so it's created a separate copy of the database.
So let's go back here and we can now see that this has changed from a global to a regional role and
it's a writer.
So this has now become its own database.
You can now write to this database and you can now go and create a cross region replica or even create
a global database and create a secondary global database out of this one in a different region.
So that's all great and that's the end of this lab.
All we need to do now is just go in and delete our databases.
So let's go disable the final creation of the final snapshot.
We just need to go in and type delete me and we'll then need to go and do the same thing for our databases
in the Sydney region here
and then once those have deleted you'll then be able to go in and actually delete your clusters.
That won't be available until you've got these deleted so make sure you do because you will pay money
for these raw databases and clean up all your resources and that's it for this lab.
Guys see you in the next lab.